Learning Resources
==================

This site seems to have good information about reccomended frameworks and the
like: https://www.thoughtworks.com/radar.

This site has programming courses where you sit down and watch somebody
program: https://app.pluralsight.com/id/

This site has courses for a variety of subjects including programming:
https://www.udemy.com/courses/development/. Some are free, some you have to
pay for.

A ruby book that Joseph recommended at some point:
https://www.railstutorial.org/book

Talks about Martin Gardner's "Mathematical Games" series which sounds like
great fun. Its basically recreational math problems:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/12/opinion/the-importance-of-recreational-math.html

Looks like web and mobile tutorials. Seems super good! https://thinkster.io/

A list of sites for online classes: https://www.themuse.com/advice/14-best-sites-for-taking-online-classes-thatll-boost-your-skills-and-get-you-ahead

Wobbles' blog. He has a lot of great thoughts so I think there is a lot to
learn! http://www.compete-complete.com/

Some intern who worked at CB. On hugfest they gave him an honerary 1 because
he was kicking so much ass. I'm thinking I should follow him a bit:
https://joetorraca.com/

A list of projects you could complete in any programming language:
https://github.com/karan/Projects

Building a web application with golang. I believe golang is a little more new
in terms of creating a robust web application. I think ruby has rails, python
has flask, php has symfony, etc...
https://github.com/astaxie/build-web-application-with-golang

About feature flags: http://featureflags.io

A nice article about the SOLID principles of programming:
http://code.tutsplus.com/series/the-solid-principles--cms-634

One person who talked at gophercon runs this site which has lots of
programming related exercises: http://exercism.io/

A list of math problems that should be solved with programming:
https://projecteuler.net/

I was able to get through network programming with C because of this man:
https://beej.us/

Seems to be a guy with a lot of random tutorials:
http://xahlee.info/index.html

Great talk about language by Guy Steele:
`https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ahvzDzKdB0`

Programming is not important:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5qkupdkdzAc

This post lists some nice sounding repositories like
https://github.com/vhf/free-programming-books:
https://octoverse.github.com/

I bought some unix programming books from this site:
https://www.humblebundle.com/. humble92
