Cloudwatch alarms

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/AlarmThatSendsEmail.html

Metric stuff has always been confusing to me I think because time is
involved. I was creating a cloudwatch alarm to alert us if the number
of cloudformation stacks went over a certain threshold so we'd get
alerted and could request a service limit increase or look for stacks
to delete. I think the Period had to be longer than the freqency at
which metrics are emitted which I don't think is documented. WHY IS IT
NOT DOCUMENTED?? There is apparently one datapoint per period on the
graph. Data points to alarm is the number X data points which need to
be above the threshold to trigger an alarm and evaluation period will
consider the last at the last Y data points.

For example, if:
- period: 1 min
- data points to alarm: 3
- evaluation period: 10

Then we will always be looking at a moving window of 10 minutes and if
within that 10 minute period there are 3 data points above the
threshold, then trigger the alert. OR

if
num_data_points_violating_threshold(get_data_points_from_past(evaluation_period *
period)) > data_points_to_alarm THEN alert

Again though, I think there's this seemingly undocumented part where
the frequency of a metric being emitted should determine your period.
Because when I did a period of 1 minute for the service limit then I'd
see one data point every 30 minutes but it didn't seem to register
with the alarm system most of the time. EDIT: Actually I think the
alarm system would "see" the data again when the metric got emitted.
i.e. if the metric gets emitted at 1:00 and every hour after then at
1:00 the 1 minute period would return data but if we wait till 1:02
then the data will no longer return.

Also, I bet setting the period to a smaller time window than the
frequency at which a metric gets emitted reveals how often that metric
gets emitted.



{
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "metrics": [
        [ "AWS/TrustedAdvisor", "ServiceLimitUsage", "ServiceName", "CloudFormation", "ServiceLimit", "Stacks", "Region", "us-east-1", { "stat": "Average" } ]
    ],
    "view": "timeSeries",
    "stacked": false,
    "period": 3600,
    "annotations": {
        "horizontal": [
            {
                "label": "ServiceLimitUsage > 0.9 for 1 datapoints within 1 hour",
                "value": 0.9
            }
        ]
    },
    "title": "cloudformation-stack-usage-percentage"
}
